The idea for “What Award Shows Correlate with the Oscars?” came simply from countless articles pointing to the fact that the Directors Guild of America and the Screen Actors Guild were indications of who could walk home with the golden statues. These lines have been used so much, it honestly has become a cliché when it comes to award season writing. 

So I decided to look at the last 15 seasons and see what award shows correlated with the Oscars: but first it was important to narrow down the list. With the actual ceremonies it was easier: SAG, PGA, DGA, BAFTA, Spirit Awards, Critic’s Choice, National Board of Review and Golden Globes are the most known. Yet there are also smaller shows like Satellite, Gotham and ACE Eddie Awards: choosing to use the three came down to if they have enough of a sample size. In the case of Gotham, they are fairly new and have only given out Best Picture since the early 2000s and acting in the last five years. So it was easy to throw that out and keep the other two. 

On the other hand, picking the three critic lists was a bit more difficult: there are so many out there, as it seems like every major city has one. At the same time, it just came down popularity: and the New York Film Critics Circle, Los Angeles Film Critics Association and National Society of Film Critics just happened to be the most known.

But getting the information was one thing – everything was done by manually going to each shows’ website and logging the winners for the last 15 years – actually using it is another. So I decided that having stats for each individual show on the same page would be too much for the reader to absorb. Therefore, there would be a brief 600-word summary on the initial page with 13 clickable logos – each representing their particular ceremony. Once you click on one, then the information would pop up: there would be an explainer and graphs showing that particular ceremony’s stats. 

The pop-up feature was done with Javascript: and it took way longer than I care to admit. But it pops up in the center of the page and the viewer is able to go back to the main page thanks to the scroll feature and a return button. 
